# DELTREE file/directory\_name

[\[\<\<\<\]](ug_25.43.md) [\[\>\>\>\]](ug_25.45.md)

Delete a file or a directory. You can use this command to delete a file
the same way as you do use the command [DELETE](ug_25.43.md). The
difference between the two commands [DLETE](ug.md) and `DELTREE` comes
into place when the program deletes directories.

This command, `DELTREE` forcefully tries to delete a directory even if
the directory is not empty. If the directory is not empty then the
command tries to delete the files in the directory and the
subdirectories recursively.

If the file or the directory cannot be deleted then the command raises
error. However even in this case some of the files and subdirectories
may already been deleted.

Delete a file or a directory. You can use this command to delete a file
the same way as you do use the command [DELETE](ug_25.43.md). The
difference between the two commands [DLETE](ug.md) and `DELTREE` comes
into place when the program deletes directories.

This command, `DELTREE` forcefully tries to delete a directory even if
the directory is not empty. If the directory is not empty then the
command tries to delete the files in the directory and the
subdirectories recursively.

If the file or the directory cannot be deleted then the command raises
error. However even in this case some of the files and subdirectories
may already been deleted.

Delete a file or a directory. You can use this command to delete a file
the same way as you do use the command [DELETE](ug_25.43.md). The
difference between the two commands [DLETE](ug.md) and `DELTREE` comes
into place when the program deletes directories.

This command, `DELTREE` forcefully tries to delete a directory even if
the directory is not empty. If the directory is not empty then the
command tries to delete the files in the directory and the
subdirectories recursively.

If the file or the directory cannot be deleted then the command raises
error. However even in this case some of the files and subdirectories
may already been deleted.

-----

[\[\<\<\<\]](ug_25.43.md) [\[\>\>\>\]](ug_25.45.md)
