# KILL(pid)

[\[\<\<\<\]](ug_25.109.1.md) [\[\>\>\>\]](ug_25.111.md)

This function kills (terminates) a process given by the `pid` and
returns true if the process was successfully killed. Otherwise it
returns false.

Programs usually want to kill other processes that were started by
themselves (by the program I mean) and do not stop. For example you can
start an external program using the BASIC command
[EXECUTE](ug_25.55.md) to run up to a certain time. If the program does
not finish its work and does not stop during this time then that program
that started it can assume that the external program failed and got into
an infinite loop. To stop this external program the BASIC program should
use the function `KILL`.

The BASIC program however can try to kill just any process that runs on
the system not only those that were started by the program. It can be
successful if the program has the certain permissions to kill the given
process.

You can use this function along with the functions
[SYSTEM](ug_25.194.md) and `EXECUTE`. You can list the processes
currently running on an NT box using some of the functions of the module
`NT`.

This function kills (terminates) a process given by the `pid` and
returns true if the process was successfully killed. Otherwise it
returns false.

Programs usually want to kill other processes that were started by
themselves (by the program I mean) and do not stop. For example you can
start an external program using the BASIC command
[EXECUTE](ug_25.55.md) to run up to a certain time. If the program does
not finish its work and does not stop during this time then that program
that started it can assume that the external program failed and got into
an infinite loop. To stop this external program the BASIC program should
use the function `KILL`.

The BASIC program however can try to kill just any process that runs on
the system not only those that were started by the program. It can be
successful if the program has the certain permissions to kill the given
process.

You can use this function along with the functions
[SYSTEM](ug_25.194.md) and `EXECUTE`. You can list the processes
currently running on an NT box using some of the functions of the module
`NT`.

This function kills (terminates) a process given by the `pid` and
returns true if the process was successfully killed. Otherwise it
returns false.

Programs usually want to kill other processes that were started by
themselves (by the program I mean) and do not stop. For example you can
start an external program using the BASIC command
[EXECUTE](ug_25.55.md) to run up to a certain time. If the program does
not finish its work and does not stop during this time then that program
that started it can assume that the external program failed and got into
an infinite loop. To stop this external program the BASIC program should
use the function `KILL`.

The BASIC program however can try to kill just any process that runs on
the system not only those that were started by the program. It can be
successful if the program has the certain permissions to kill the given
process.

You can use this function along with the functions
[SYSTEM](ug_25.194.md) and `EXECUTE`. You can list the processes
currently running on an NT box using some of the functions of the module
`NT`.

-----

[\[\<\<\<\]](ug_25.109.1.md) [\[\>\>\>\]](ug_25.111.md)
