# SEEK fn,position

[\[\<\<\<\]](ug_25.176.md) [\[\>\>\>\]](ug_25.178.md)

Go to a specified position in an open file. You can use this command to
position the file pointer to a specific position. The next read or write
operation performed on the file will be performed on that very position
that was set using the command `SEEK`. The first argument is the file
number that was used in the statement `OPEN` to open the file. The
second argument is the position where the file pointer is to be set.

The position is counted from the start of the file counting records. The
actual file pointer will be set **after**\> the record `position`. This
means that if for example you want to set the file pointer To the start
of the file then you have to `SEEK fn,0`. This will set the File pointer
before the first record.

If there was no record length specified when the file was opened the
counting takes bytes. There is no special "record" structure of a file
as it is usually under UNIX or Windows NT. The record is merely the
number of bytes treated as a single unit specified during file opening.
Go to a specified position in an open file. You can use this command to
position the file pointer to a specific position. The next read or write
operation performed on the file will be performed on that very position
that was set using the command `SEEK`. The first argument is the file
number that was used in the statement `OPEN` to open the file. The
second argument is the position where the file pointer is to be set.

The position is counted from the start of the file counting records. The
actual file pointer will be set **after**\> the record `position`. This
means that if for example you want to set the file pointer To the start
of the file then you have to `SEEK fn,0`. This will set the File pointer
before the first record.

If there was no record length specified when the file was opened the
counting takes bytes. There is no special "record" structure of a file
as it is usually under UNIX or Windows NT. The record is merely the
number of bytes treated as a single unit specified during file opening.
Go to a specified position in an open file. You can use this command to
position the file pointer to a specific position. The next read or write
operation performed on the file will be performed on that very position
that was set using the command `SEEK`. The first argument is the file
number that was used in the statement `OPEN` to open the file. The
second argument is the position where the file pointer is to be set.

The position is counted from the start of the file counting records. The
actual file pointer will be set **after**\> the record `position`. This
means that if for example you want to set the file pointer To the start
of the file then you have to `SEEK fn,0`. This will set the File pointer
before the first record.

If there was no record length specified when the file was opened the
counting takes bytes. There is no special "record" structure of a file
as it is usually under UNIX or Windows NT. The record is merely the
number of bytes treated as a single unit specified during file opening.

-----

[\[\<\<\<\]](ug_25.176.md) [\[\>\>\>\]](ug_25.178.md)
