# MKDIR directory\_name

[\[\<\<\<\]](ug_25.139.md) [\[\>\>\>\]](ug_25.141.md)

This command creates a new directory. If it is needed then the command
attempts to create all directories automatically that are needed to
create the final directory. For example if you want to create
`public.mdl/cgi-bin` but the directory `public.mdl` does not exist
then the command

    MKDIR "public.mdl/cgi-bin"

will first create the directory `public.mdl` and then `cgi-bin` under
that directory.

If the directory can not be created for some reason an error is raised.

This is not an error if the directory does already exist.

You need not call this function when you want to create a file using the
command [OPEN](ug_12.14.1.md). The command [OPEN](ug_12.14.1.md)
automatically creates the needed directory when a file is opened to be
written.

The created directory can be erased calling the command
[DELETE](ug_25.43.md) or calling the dangerous command
[DELTREE](ug_25.44.md).

This command creates a new directory. If it is needed then the command
attempts to create all directories automatically that are needed to
create the final directory. For example if you want to create
`public.mdl/cgi-bin` but the directory `public.mdl` does not exist
then the command

    MKDIR "public.mdl/cgi-bin"

will first create the directory `public.mdl` and then `cgi-bin` under
that directory.

If the directory can not be created for some reason an error is raised.

This is not an error if the directory does already exist.

You need not call this function when you want to create a file using the
command [OPEN](ug_12.14.1.md). The command [OPEN](ug_12.14.1.md)
automatically creates the needed directory when a file is opened to be
written.

The created directory can be erased calling the command
[DELETE](ug_25.43.md) or calling the dangerous command
[DELTREE](ug_25.44.md).

This command creates a new directory. If it is needed then the command
attempts to create all directories automatically that are needed to
create the final directory. For example if you want to create
`public.mdl/cgi-bin` but the directory `public.mdl` does not exist
then the command

    MKDIR "public.mdl/cgi-bin"

will first create the directory `public.mdl` and then `cgi-bin` under
that directory.

If the directory can not be created for some reason an error is raised.

This is not an error if the directory does already exist.

You need not call this function when you want to create a file using the
command [OPEN](ug_12.14.1.md). The command [OPEN](ug_12.14.1.md)
automatically creates the needed directory when a file is opened to be
written.

The created directory can be erased calling the command
[DELETE](ug_25.43.md) or calling the dangerous command
[DELTREE](ug_25.44.md).

-----

[\[\<\<\<\]](ug_25.139.md) [\[\>\>\>\]](ug_25.141.md)
