# LINE INPUT

[\[\<\<\<\]](ug_25.123.1.md) [\[\>\>\>\]](ug_25.125.md)

Read a line from a file or from the standard input.

The syntax of the command is

    LINE INPUT [# i , ] variable

The parameter `i` is the file number used in the open statement. If this
is not specified the standard input is read.

The `variable` will hold a single line from the file read containing the
possible new line character terminating the line. If the last line of a
file is not terminated by a new line character then the `variable` will
not contain any new line character. Thus this command does return only
the characters that are really in the file and does not append extra new
line character at the end of the last line if that lacks it.

On the other hand you should not rely on the missing new line character
from the end of the last line because it may and usually it happens to
be there. Use rather the function [EOF](ug_25.51.md) to determine if a
file reading has reached the end of the file or not.

See also [CHOMP](ug_25.22.md)

You can also read from sockets using this command but you should be
careful because data in a socket comes from programs generated on the
fly. This means that the socket pipe may not contain the line
terminating new line and not finished as well unlike a file. Therefore
the command may start infinitely long when trying to read from a socket
until the application on the other end of the line sends a new line
character or closes the socket. When you read from a file this may not
happen.

Read a line from a file or from the standard input.

The syntax of the command is

    LINE INPUT [# i , ] variable

The parameter `i` is the file number used in the open statement. If this
is not specified the standard input is read.

The `variable` will hold a single line from the file read containing the
possible new line character terminating the line. If the last line of a
file is not terminated by a new line character then the `variable` will
not contain any new line character. Thus this command does return only
the characters that are really in the file and does not append extra new
line character at the end of the last line if that lacks it.

On the other hand you should not rely on the missing new line character
from the end of the last line because it may and usually it happens to
be there. Use rather the function [EOF](ug_25.51.md) to determine if a
file reading has reached the end of the file or not.

See also [CHOMP](ug_25.22.md)

You can also read from sockets using this command but you should be
careful because data in a socket comes from programs generated on the
fly. This means that the socket pipe may not contain the line
terminating new line and not finished as well unlike a file. Therefore
the command may start infinitely long when trying to read from a socket
until the application on the other end of the line sends a new line
character or closes the socket. When you read from a file this may not
happen.

Read a line from a file or from the standard input.

The syntax of the command is

    LINE INPUT [# i , ] variable

The parameter `i` is the file number used in the open statement. If this
is not specified the standard input is read.

The `variable` will hold a single line from the file read containing the
possible new line character terminating the line. If the last line of a
file is not terminated by a new line character then the `variable` will
not contain any new line character. Thus this command does return only
the characters that are really in the file and does not append extra new
line character at the end of the last line if that lacks it.

On the other hand you should not rely on the missing new line character
from the end of the last line because it may and usually it happens to
be there. Use rather the function [EOF](ug_25.51.md) to determine if a
file reading has reached the end of the file or not.

See also [CHOMP](ug_25.22.md)

You can also read from sockets using this command but you should be
careful because data in a socket comes from programs generated on the
fly. This means that the socket pipe may not contain the line
terminating new line and not finished as well unlike a file. Therefore
the command may start infinitely long when trying to read from a socket
until the application on the other end of the line sends a new line
character or closes the socket. When you read from a file this may not
happen.

-----

[\[\<\<\<\]](ug_25.123.1.md) [\[\>\>\>\]](ug_25.125.md)
