# FILECOPY filename,filename

[\[\<\<\<\]](ug_25.60.md) [\[\>\>\>\]](ug_25.62.md)

Copy a file. The first file is the existing one, the second is the name
of the new file. If the destination file already exists then the command
overwrites the file. If the destination file is to be created in a
directory that does not exist yet then the directory is created
automatically.

In the current version of the command you can not use wild characters to
specify more than one file to copy, and you can not concatenate files
using this command. You also have to specify the full file name as
destination file and this is an error to specify only a directory where
to copy the file.

Later versions of this command may implement these features.

If the program can not open the source file to read or the destination
file can not be created then the command raises error.

Copy a file. The first file is the existing one, the second is the name
of the new file. If the destination file already exists then the command
overwrites the file. If the destination file is to be created in a
directory that does not exist yet then the directory is created
automatically.

In the current version of the command you can not use wild characters to
specify more than one file to copy, and you can not concatenate files
using this command. You also have to specify the full file name as
destination file and this is an error to specify only a directory where
to copy the file.

Later versions of this command may implement these features.

If the program can not open the source file to read or the destination
file can not be created then the command raises error.

Copy a file. The first file is the existing one, the second is the name
of the new file. If the destination file already exists then the command
overwrites the file. If the destination file is to be created in a
directory that does not exist yet then the directory is created
automatically.

In the current version of the command you can not use wild characters to
specify more than one file to copy, and you can not concatenate files
using this command. You also have to specify the full file name as
destination file and this is an error to specify only a directory where
to copy the file.

Later versions of this command may implement these features.

If the program can not open the source file to read or the destination
file can not be created then the command raises error.

-----

[\[\<\<\<\]](ug_25.60.md) [\[\>\>\>\]](ug_25.62.md)
