# PRINT \[ \# fn , \] print\_list

[\[\<\<\<\]](ug_25.160.md) [\[\>\>\>\]](ug_25.162.md)

This command prints the elements of the `print_list`. The argument
`print_list` is a comma separated list of expressions. The expressions
are evaluated one after the other and are printed to the standard output
or to the file.

The command prints the `print_list` to an opened file given by the file
number `fn`. If `fn` (along with the `#` character) is not specified the
command prints to the standard output. The file has to be opened to some
"output" mode otherwise the command fails to print anything into the
file. The command can also print into an opened socket (a file opened
for mode socket). If the file is not opened then the expressions in the
list `print_list` are not evaluated and the command actually does
nothing. If the file is opened, but not for a kind of "output" mode then
the expressions in the `print_list` are evaluated but the printing does
not happen. Neither printing to a non-opened file number nor printing to
a file opened for some read-only mode generates error.

If there is no `print_list` specified the command prints a new line. In
other words if the keyword `PRINT` stands on the command with the
optional `#` and the file number but without anything to print then the
command will print a new line character.

Note that unlike other BASIC implementations the command `PRINT` does
not accept print list formatters, like `AT` or semicolons and does not
tabify the output. The arguments are printed to the file or to the
standard output one after the other without any intrinsic space or tab
added. Also the print statements does not print a new line at the end of
the print list unless the new line character is explicitly defined or if
there is no print list at all following the command.

This command prints the elements of the `print_list`. The argument
`print_list` is a comma separated list of expressions. The expressions
are evaluated one after the other and are printed to the standard output
or to the file.

The command prints the `print_list` to an opened file given by the file
number `fn`. If `fn` (along with the `#` character) is not specified the
command prints to the standard output. The file has to be opened to some
"output" mode otherwise the command fails to print anything into the
file. The command can also print into an opened socket (a file opened
for mode socket). If the file is not opened then the expressions in the
list `print_list` are not evaluated and the command actually does
nothing. If the file is opened, but not for a kind of "output" mode then
the expressions in the `print_list` are evaluated but the printing does
not happen. Neither printing to a non-opened file number nor printing to
a file opened for some read-only mode generates error.

If there is no `print_list` specified the command prints a new line. In
other words if the keyword `PRINT` stands on the command with the
optional `#` and the file number but without anything to print then the
command will print a new line character.

Note that unlike other BASIC implementations the command `PRINT` does
not accept print list formatters, like `AT` or semicolons and does not
tabify the output. The arguments are printed to the file or to the
standard output one after the other without any intrinsic space or tab
added. Also the print statements does not print a new line at the end of
the print list unless the new line character is explicitly defined or if
there is no print list at all following the command.

This command prints the elements of the `print_list`. The argument
`print_list` is a comma separated list of expressions. The expressions
are evaluated one after the other and are printed to the standard output
or to the file.

The command prints the `print_list` to an opened file given by the file
number `fn`. If `fn` (along with the `#` character) is not specified the
command prints to the standard output. The file has to be opened to some
"output" mode otherwise the command fails to print anything into the
file. The command can also print into an opened socket (a file opened
for mode socket). If the file is not opened then the expressions in the
list `print_list` are not evaluated and the command actually does
nothing. If the file is opened, but not for a kind of "output" mode then
the expressions in the `print_list` are evaluated but the printing does
not happen. Neither printing to a non-opened file number nor printing to
a file opened for some read-only mode generates error.

If there is no `print_list` specified the command prints a new line. In
other words if the keyword `PRINT` stands on the command with the
optional `#` and the file number but without anything to print then the
command will print a new line character.

Note that unlike other BASIC implementations the command `PRINT` does
not accept print list formatters, like `AT` or semicolons and does not
tabify the output. The arguments are printed to the file or to the
standard output one after the other without any intrinsic space or tab
added. Also the print statements does not print a new line at the end of
the print list unless the new line character is explicitly defined or if
there is no print list at all following the command.

-----

[\[\<\<\<\]](ug_25.160.md) [\[\>\>\>\]](ug_25.162.md)
