# SYSTEM(executable\_program)

[\[\<\<\<\]](ug_25.193.md) [\[\>\>\>\]](ug_25.195.md)

This function should be used to start an external program in a separate
process in asynchronous mode. In other words you can start a process and
let it run by itself and not wait for the process to finish. After
starting the new process the BASIC program goes on parallel with the
started external program.

The return value of the function is the PID of the newly created
process.

This function should be used to start an external program in a separate
process in asynchronous mode. In other words you can start a process and
let it run by itself and not wait for the process to finish. After
starting the new process the BASIC program goes on parallel with the
started external program.

The return value of the function is the PID of the newly created
process.

If the program specified by the argument can not be started then the
return value is zero. Under UNIX the program may return a valid PID even
in this case. This is because UNIX first makes a copy of the process
that wants to start another and then replaces the new process image with
the program image to be started. In this case the new process is created
and the command `SYSTEM` has no information on the fact that the new
process was not able to replace the executable image of itself. In this
case, however, the child process has a very short life.

This function should be used to start an external program in a separate
process in asynchronous mode. In other words you can start a process and
let it run by itself and not wait for the process to finish. After
starting the new process the BASIC program goes on parallel with the
started external program.

The return value of the function is the PID of the newly created
process.

-----

[\[\<\<\<\]](ug_25.193.md) [\[\>\>\>\]](ug_25.195.md)
