# SET FILE filename parameter=value

[\[\<\<\<\]](ug_25.177.md) [\[\>\>\>\]](ug_25.179.md)

Set some of the parameters of a file. The parameter can be:

  - `owner` set the owner of the file. This operation requires `root`
    permission on UNIX or `Administrator` privileges on Windows NT. The
    value should be the string representation of the UNIX user or the
    Windows NT domain user.
  - `createtime`
  - `modifytime`
  - `accesstime`
  - Set the time of the file. The value should be the file time in
    seconds since January 1,1970. 00:00GMT.

If the command can not be executed an error is raised. Note that setting
the file owner also depends on the file system. For example FAT file
system does not store the owner of a file and thus can not be set.

Also setting the file time on some file system may be unsuccessful for
values that are successful under other file systems. This is because
different file systems store the file times using different possible
start and end dates and resolution. For example you can set a file to
hold the creation time to be January 1, 1970 0:00 under NTFS, but not
under FAT.

The different file systems store the file times with different
precision. Thus the actual time set will be the closest time not later
than the specified in the command argument. For this reason the values
returned by the functions `File***Time` may not be the same that was
specified in the `SET FILE` command argument.

Set some of the parameters of a file. The parameter can be:

  - `owner` set the owner of the file. This operation requires `root`
    permission on UNIX or `Administrator` privileges on Windows NT. The
    value should be the string representation of the UNIX user or the
    Windows NT domain user.
  - `createtime`
  - `modifytime`
  - `accesstime`
  - Set the time of the file. The value should be the file time in
    seconds since January 1,1970. 00:00GMT.

If the command can not be executed an error is raised. Note that setting
the file owner also depends on the file system. For example FAT file
system does not store the owner of a file and thus can not be set.

Also setting the file time on some file system may be unsuccessful for
values that are successful under other file systems. This is because
different file systems store the file times using different possible
start and end dates and resolution. For example you can set a file to
hold the creation time to be January 1, 1970 0:00 under NTFS, but not
under FAT.

The different file systems store the file times with different
precision. Thus the actual time set will be the closest time not later
than the specified in the command argument. For this reason the values
returned by the functions `File***Time` may not be the same that was
specified in the `SET FILE` command argument.

Set some of the parameters of a file. The parameter can be:

  - `owner` set the owner of the file. This operation requires `root`
    permission on UNIX or `Administrator` privileges on Windows NT. The
    value should be the string representation of the UNIX user or the
    Windows NT domain user.
  - `createtime`
  - `modifytime`
  - `accesstime`
  - Set the time of the file. The value should be the file time in
    seconds since January 1,1970. 00:00GMT.

If the command can not be executed an error is raised. Note that setting
the file owner also depends on the file system. For example FAT file
system does not store the owner of a file and thus can not be set.

Also setting the file time on some file system may be unsuccessful for
values that are successful under other file systems. This is because
different file systems store the file times using different possible
start and end dates and resolution. For example you can set a file to
hold the creation time to be January 1, 1970 0:00 under NTFS, but not
under FAT.

The different file systems store the file times with different
precision. Thus the actual time set will be the closest time not later
than the specified in the command argument. For this reason the values
returned by the functions `File***Time` may not be the same that was
specified in the `SET FILE` command argument.

-----

[\[\<\<\<\]](ug_25.177.md) [\[\>\>\>\]](ug_25.179.md)
