# TRUNCATE fn,new\_length

[\[\<\<\<\]](ug_25.200.md) [\[\>\>\>\]](ug_25.202.md)

Truncate an opened file to the specified size. The first argument Has to
be the file number used in the [OPEN](ug_12.14.1.md) statement opening
the file. The second argument is the number of records to be in the file
after it is truncated.

The size of a record has to be specified when the file is opened. If the
size Of a record is not specified in number of bytes then the command
`TRUNCATE` Does truncate the file to the number of specified bytes
instead of records. (In other words the record length is one byte.)

When the file is actually shorter than the length specified by the
command argument the command `TRUNCATE` automatically extends the file
padding with bytes containing the value 0.

Truncate an opened file to the specified size. The first argument Has to
be the file number used in the [OPEN](ug_12.14.1.md) statement opening
the file. The second argument is the number of records to be in the file
after it is truncated.

The size of a record has to be specified when the file is opened. If the
size Of a record is not specified in number of bytes then the command
`TRUNCATE` Does truncate the file to the number of specified bytes
instead of records. (In other words the record length is one byte.)

When the file is actually shorter than the length specified by the
command argument the command `TRUNCATE` automatically extends the file
padding with bytes containing the value 0.

Truncate an opened file to the specified size. The first argument Has to
be the file number used in the [OPEN](ug_12.14.1.md) statement opening
the file. The second argument is the number of records to be in the file
after it is truncated.

The size of a record has to be specified when the file is opened. If the
size Of a record is not specified in number of bytes then the command
`TRUNCATE` Does truncate the file to the number of specified bytes
instead of records. (In other words the record length is one byte.)

When the file is actually shorter than the length specified by the
command argument the command `TRUNCATE` automatically extends the file
padding with bytes containing the value 0.

-----

[\[\<\<\<\]](ug_25.200.md) [\[\>\>\>\]](ug_25.202.md)
