# LOC()

[\[\<\<\<\]](ug_25.124.md) [\[\>\>\>\]](ug_25.126.md)

Return current file pointer position of the opened file. The argument of
the function is the file number that was used by the statement
[OPEN](ug_12.14.1.md) opening the file.

This function is the counter part of the statement [SEEK](ug_25.177.md)
that sets the file pointer position.

The file position is counted in record size. This means that the file
pointer stands after the record returned by the function. This is not
necessarily stands right after the record at the start of the next
record actually. It may happen that the file pointer stands somewhere in
the middle of the next record. Therefore the command

    SEEK fn,LOC(fn)

may alter the actual file position and can be used to set the file
pointer to a safe record boundary position.

If there was no record size defined when the file was opened the
location is counted in bytes. In this case the returned value precisely
defines where the file pointer is. Return current file pointer position
of the opened file. The argument of the function is the file number that
was used by the statement [OPEN](ug_12.14.1.md) opening the file.

This function is the counter part of the statement [SEEK](ug_25.177.md)
that sets the file pointer position.

The file position is counted in record size. This means that the file
pointer stands after the record returned by the function. This is not
necessarily stands right after the record at the start of the next
record actually. It may happen that the file pointer stands somewhere in
the middle of the next record. Therefore the command

    SEEK fn,LOC(fn)

may alter the actual file position and can be used to set the file
pointer to a safe record boundary position.

If there was no record size defined when the file was opened the
location is counted in bytes. In this case the returned value precisely
defines where the file pointer is. Return current file pointer position
of the opened file. The argument of the function is the file number that
was used by the statement [OPEN](ug_12.14.1.md) opening the file.

This function is the counter part of the statement [SEEK](ug_25.177.md)
that sets the file pointer position.

The file position is counted in record size. This means that the file
pointer stands after the record returned by the function. This is not
necessarily stands right after the record at the start of the next
record actually. It may happen that the file pointer stands somewhere in
the middle of the next record. Therefore the command

    SEEK fn,LOC(fn)

may alter the actual file position and can be used to set the file
pointer to a safe record boundary position.

If there was no record size defined when the file was opened the
location is counted in bytes. In this case the returned value precisely
defines where the file pointer is.

-----

[\[\<\<\<\]](ug_25.124.md) [\[\>\>\>\]](ug_25.126.md)
