# CHDIR directory

[\[\<\<\<\]](ug_25.20.md) [\[\>\>\>\]](ug_25.22.md)

Change the current working directory (CWD). This command accepts one
argument, the directory which has to be the CWD after the command is
executed. If the CWD can not be changed to that directory then an error
is raised.

Pay careful attention when you use this command in your code. Note that
there is only one CWD for each process and not one for each thread. When
an application embeds the BASIC interpreter in a multi-thread
environment, like in the Eszter SB Application Engine this command may
alter the CWD for all the threads.

For this reason the Eszter SB Application Engine switches off this
command, raising error if ever a program executed in the engine calls
this command whatever argument is given.

Thus usually BASIC programs should avoid calling this command unless the
programmer is certain that the BASIC program will only be executed in a
single thread environment (command line).

Change the current working directory (CWD). This command accepts one
argument, the directory which has to be the CWD after the command is
executed. If the CWD can not be changed to that directory then an error
is raised.

Pay careful attention when you use this command in your code. Note that
there is only one CWD for each process and not one for each thread. When
an application embeds the BASIC interpreter in a multi-thread
environment, like in the Eszter SB Application Engine this command may
alter the CWD for all the threads.

For this reason the Eszter SB Application Engine switches off this
command, raising error if ever a program executed in the engine calls
this command whatever argument is given.

Thus usually BASIC programs should avoid calling this command unless the
programmer is certain that the BASIC program will only be executed in a
single thread environment (command line).

Change the current working directory (CWD). This command accepts one
argument, the directory which has to be the CWD after the command is
executed. If the CWD can not be changed to that directory then an error
is raised.

Pay careful attention when you use this command in your code. Note that
there is only one CWD for each process and not one for each thread. When
an application embeds the BASIC interpreter in a multi-thread
environment, like in the Eszter SB Application Engine this command may
alter the CWD for all the threads.

For this reason the Eszter SB Application Engine switches off this
command, raising error if ever a program executed in the engine calls
this command whatever argument is given.

Thus usually BASIC programs should avoid calling this command unless the
programmer is certain that the BASIC program will only be executed in a
single thread environment (command line).

-----

[\[\<\<\<\]](ug_25.20.md) [\[\>\>\>\]](ug_25.22.md)
