# COMMANDF Details

[\[\<\<\<\]](ug_25.27.md) [\[\>\>\>\]](ug_25.28.md)

You can start the ScriptBasic interpreter several ways. The most evident
way is to specify the interpreter on the command line:

    # scriba test_command.sb arg1 arg2  arg3

You can also start the program using the name of the program:

    # test_command.sb arg1 arg2  arg3

This assumes that the script is executable and that the first line is
`#!/usr/bin/scriba` pointing to the interpreter (UNIX). On Windows the
file extension `.sb` should be associated with the interpreter. This is
done by the ScriptBasic installer. (Also see the note below.)

Under Windows you can also start the code without specifying the
extension:

    # test_command arg1 arg2  arg3

You can have the program compiled to executable and you can start the
exe with the command

    # test_command arg1 arg2  arg3

where `test_command` now refers to the executable file. In any of these
cases the function `COMMAND` returns the string containning the commal
line arguments.

NOTE:

Some versions of the installer has a bug that will prevent passing
command-line arguments to a BASIC program when it is started on the
command by its name. To check whether your have ScriptBasic corretcly
installed try execute the following program:

    REM test_command.sb
    print COMMAND()

Save the program into the file `test_command.sb` and type the command:

    C:\> test_command arg1 arg2  arg3

If the program prints the arguments, then you are not exposed to this
bug. If the program returns without printing anything but a new line you
have installed a ScriptBasic version that contains this installer bug.

To correct this bug you should start the registry editor and open the
key

    HKEY_CLASSES_ROOT\ScriptBasic\shell\command

The default value should be

    C:\ScriptBasic\BIN\scriba.exe %1

The actual path to the executable may differ from the listed above. If
that is the case you can modify the value to be

    C:\ScriptBasic\BIN\scriba.exe %1 %*

You should NOT use the value from this document as listed above, but
rather you have to edit the value and append `  %* ` after the original
value, because it is likely that you have a differet installation path
of the interpreter.

-----

[\[\<\<\<\]](ug_25.27.md) [\[\>\>\>\]](ug_25.28.md)
