# FREEFILE()

[\[\<\<\<\]](ug_25.73.md) [\[\>\>\>\]](ug_25.75.md)

This function returns a free file number, which is currently not
associated with any opened file. If there is no such file number it
returns `undef`.

The returned value can be used in a consecutive [OPEN](ug_12.14.1.md)
statement to specify a file number. Another way to get a free file
number is to set a variable to hold the integer value zero and use the
variable as file number in the statement [OPEN](ug_12.14.1.md). For
more information on this method see the documentation of the statement
[OPEN](ug_12.14.1.md). This function returns a free file number, which
is currently not associated with any opened file. If there is no such
file number it returns `undef`.

The returned value can be used in a consecutive [OPEN](ug_12.14.1.md)
statement to specify a file number. Another way to get a free file
number is to set a variable to hold the integer value zero and use the
variable as file number in the statement [OPEN](ug_12.14.1.md). For
more information on this method see the documentation of the statement
[OPEN](ug_12.14.1.md). This function returns a free file number, which
is currently not associated with any opened file. If there is no such
file number it returns `undef`.

The returned value can be used in a consecutive [OPEN](ug_12.14.1.md)
statement to specify a file number. Another way to get a free file
number is to set a variable to hold the integer value zero and use the
variable as file number in the statement [OPEN](ug_12.14.1.md). For
more information on this method see the documentation of the statement
[OPEN](ug_12.14.1.md).

-----

[\[\<\<\<\]](ug_25.73.md) [\[\>\>\>\]](ug_25.75.md)
