# INPUT(n,fn)

[\[\<\<\<\]](ug_25.93.md) [\[\>\>\>\]](ug_25.95.md)

This function reads records from an opened file.

Arguments:

  - `n` the first argument is the number of records to read. The size of
    the record in terms of bytes is defined as the `LEN` parameter when
    the file was opened. If this was missing the function reads `n`
    bytes from the file or socket.
  - `fn` the second parameter is the file number associated to the
    opened file by the command [OPEN](ug_12.14.1.md). If this parameter
    is missing the function reads from the standard input.

The function tries but not necessarily reads `n` records from the file.
To get the actual number of bytes (and not records\!) read from the file
you can use the function `LEN` on the result string.

Note that some Basic languages allow the form

    a = INPUT(20,#1)

however this extra `#` is not allowed in ScriptBasic. The character `#`
is an operator in ScriptBasic defined as no-operation and therefore you
can use this form. On the other hand operators like `#` are reserved for
the external modules and some external module may redefine this
operator. Programs using such modules may end up in trouble when using
the format above therefore it is recommended not to use the above
format.

This function reads records from an opened file.

Arguments:

  - `n` the first argument is the number of records to read. The size of
    the record in terms of bytes is defined as the `LEN` parameter when
    the file was opened. If this was missing the function reads `n`
    bytes from the file or socket.
  - `fn` the second parameter is the file number associated to the
    opened file by the command [OPEN](ug_12.14.1.md). If this parameter
    is missing the function reads from the standard input.

The function tries but not necessarily reads `n` records from the file.
To get the actual number of bytes (and not records\!) read from the file
you can use the function `LEN` on the result string.

Note that some Basic languages allow the form

    a = INPUT(20,#1)

however this extra `#` is not allowed in ScriptBasic. The character `#`
is an operator in ScriptBasic defined as no-operation and therefore you
can use this form. On the other hand operators like `#` are reserved for
the external modules and some external module may redefine this
operator. Programs using such modules may end up in trouble when using
the format above therefore it is recommended not to use the above
format.

This function reads records from an opened file.

Arguments:

  - `n` the first argument is the number of records to read. The size of
    the record in terms of bytes is defined as the `LEN` parameter when
    the file was opened. If this was missing the function reads `n`
    bytes from the file or socket.
  - `fn` the second parameter is the file number associated to the
    opened file by the command [OPEN](ug_12.14.1.md). If this parameter
    is missing the function reads from the standard input.

The function tries but not necessarily reads `n` records from the file.
To get the actual number of bytes (and not records\!) read from the file
you can use the function `LEN` on the result string.

Note that some Basic languages allow the form

    a = INPUT(20,#1)

however this extra `#` is not allowed in ScriptBasic. The character `#`
is an operator in ScriptBasic defined as no-operation and therefore you
can use this form. On the other hand operators like `#` are reserved for
the external modules and some external module may redefine this
operator. Programs using such modules may end up in trouble when using
the format above therefore it is recommended not to use the above
format.

-----

[\[\<\<\<\]](ug_25.93.md) [\[\>\>\>\]](ug_25.95.md)
